# pandas-challenge
module 4 challenge
15 schools with a total of 39,170 students were analyzed to determine if the school’s budget or other factors had an effect on student’s math and reading scores. The combined budget for all 15 schools was $24,649,428. The average math score was 79; the average reading score was 82. The percentage of students with a passing math score was 75; the percentage of students with a passing reading score was 86. The percentage of students with a passing math and reading score was 65. There were two types of schools in this data frame (district and charter). The lowest overall passing school was Rodriguez High School (district) with an overall passing score of 53 percent which had a budget of $637/student. The highest overall passing school was Cabrera High School (charter) with an overall passing score of 91 percent which had a budget of $582/student. The top five performing schools were all charter and had a budget of $578-638/student; the total class size for all grades in the top performing schools were between 962-2283 students. The bottom performing schools were all district and had a budget of $637-655/student; the total class size for all grades in the bottom performing schools were between 2917-4761 students. The average overall passing rate with a budget of less than 585 was 90.37, a continued trend down in overall performance as the spending range increases is observed, $585-630 at 81.42%, $630-645 at 62%, and performing the worst $645-680 at 53.53%. School size seems to be a better indicator of higher passing scores with medium and small schools fairing the best at about 90%, large schools or those with greater than 2000 and up to 5000 had an average overall passing percentage of 58%. The type of school also seemed to have an influence on overall passing scores with Charter schools at 90% and Districts at 54%. With this data it appears that overall passing scores are likely influenced by school size and type; those students enrolled in charter schools with smaller class sizes faired far better than those in district with large class sizes.
